if you thought the insults hold between
North Korea and the United States
couldn't get any more ridiculous than
this week set a new standard in fast the
road nation sentenced President Donald
Trump to death because he apparently
called their leader Kim jong-un short
and fat ordinarily this kind of behavior
would be dismissed with a chuckle but
2017 has seen tensions on the Korean
Peninsula rise to the most dangerous
level ever the threat of nuclear war is
real and Australia is in the sights of
the North's missiles after months of
negotiations nine news correspondent Tom
Stein firt was given rare permission to
travel to North Korea there he
discovered a country whose people are
not only ready for conflict but fully
aware it could mean the end of the world
[Music]
[Applause]
this is North Korea as it projects
itself to the world
a nation marching in unison
ready to defend it's later at all costs
do you think a third world war is a
possibility here who knows
our country is nuclear-armed and Donald
Trump is going to attack us but tonight
we show you a North Korea you've never
seen
[Music]
as we head inside the world's most
secretive state at a time of
unprecedented tension who is the enemy
Millikan Junkins american yankees in the
midst of a nuclear showdown that has
implications for us all Rocketman is on
a suicide mission for himself and for
his regime with unpredictable leaders
and an escalating war of words we will
have no choice but to totally destroy
North Korea it is the most serious
threat to world peace in decades in the
moment that you launch 10 missiles that
are equivalent to 1,000 bombs of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki who will survive
in this world not Australian nobody in
the United States the world will end as
we know it it's rare for foreign
journalists to get access to North Korea
at the best of times let alone right now
be careful your cameras I will tell you
we can take photos or not
okay an ever-present team of miners
carefully monitors our every move and a
highly orchestrated tour led by
government official Joo gyeong Jacques
the problem is that most of the Western
people have no idea what is going down
here they don't know the reality of our
country what is the reality our reality
is that we are enjoying a normal a
comfortable happy life here and we have
our own way so I think that with single
mind we can pave the way to a final
victory under the wise leadership of our
respected supreme leader Kim Jong hoon I
was last in Pyongyang two and a half
years ago and the changes are striking
from new streets too grandiose buildings
like the SciTech complex which
celebrates the regime's
technical achievements at its heart is a
replica of a unit a forerunner to the
intercontinental ballistic missiles
which can now reach the American
mainland because we are very proud of
the result of this base Rock Lee
the successes in the science of fillers
because it means we are developing and
we are now becoming a space power and
that kind of your economic power
we are ready Pyongyang is the showcase
capital of one of the poorest countries
on earth home to the nation's privileged
elite but make your way out of the city
and a very different North Korea is
visible one seldom seen by foreign eyes
we're on our way
200 kilometers east to the city of one
Sun a bumpy 5-hour journey through dirt
poor farmland and dark tunnels we
stopped briefly at a coffee shop where
the walls are plastered with pictures of
North Korean missile launchers so are
you excited when you see that they have
tested a nuclear weapon that's it it's
excitement I am that's beyond my
greatest excitement because we were weak
but now we are strong single-hearted
unity great leadership and we have the
ICBMs so I usually say to Donald Trump
come come come to me I will choke you
with my H bombs well in one Sun we find
fishermen jostling for space to catch
dinner at random we speak to kim
yeongcheol
who's lived here for 15 years Donald
Trump is just like a dog barking at the
moon immediately he casts the
conversation to politics as you've seen
on the TV reports Trump is saying crap
like he's going to kill us all oh we
have our Supreme Leader so even if Trump
rings all his forces even if the sky
falls we are not afraid
with its beaches and relaxed vibe Kim
jong-un has earmarked one son as North
Korea's future holiday hotspot but
overseas visitors are few and far
between
on the headland out there the regime has
built this huge brand-new international
airport because they're actually hoping
to set up a billion dollar tourism
industry in this country but given the
current climate it's no surprise that
not a single passenger plane has touched
down there yet the sights not going to
waste though because while no planes
have been taking off from there plenty
of missiles have been one Sun is one of
the regime's key missile test sites
almost 40 have been fired from this area
as North Korea or the DPRK develops its
capability to strike targets around the
world is there anything that the world
should fear from the DPRK because from
my perspective the thing that scares a
lot of people is the fact that you are
now armed with nuclear weapons I think
that not at all no sir it at all
but there is one thread it is a while
switch in the world it is from not DPR
Korea but from Donald Trump so I think
that we must get rid of this threat we
must get rid of Donald Trump
I see how then do you feel when you hear
Donald Trump say that he wants to
destroy your nation the whole Trump is
going to turn our skyscrapers into ashes
total destruction of Korea every citizen
every member of the Korean nation is God
and has got angry over many a Donald
Trump so if Donald Trump did decide to
attack your country what would happen I
think that the next step will be the
destruction of United States
no matter how old or young everyone here
marches to the beat of the regime
[Music]
North Korea's brightest students are
rewarded with a stay at the song 2-1
children's can there's plenty of fun on
offer from football to robots that seem
very sure the Australian guy but like
kids everywhere they can't get enough of
video games what are you teaching these
boys do you teach them the technique I
teach guerrilla warfare the tactics
chemisant used to vanquish the Japanese
army
what's striking is that the children
also see these games as practice for war
what do you like about this game
I'm so happy to kill Americans
so you dream this is an American that
you're shooting Americans and Japanese
and South Koreans they are the enemy of
the Korean people
[Music]
time and again we are shown the
carefully staged performances of
Pyongyang's most talented students
there's a rigid discipline to growing up
here that's hard to understand as an
outsider Pyongyang's foreign Studies
University students learn English from
tapes with a distinctly American accent
we're allowed to speak to classmates
icky on rim and least so he on although
our minders insist we avoid anything
political what changes have you seen in
Pyongyang over the last couple of years
under the wise leadership of the
respective supreme leader Kim Jong won
our country has changed into a very
luxury and modern country and yeah in
the last couple of years there are many
miracles changing our country into
problems problems country and our people
enjoying benefits of socialism but one
seemingly simple question is much harder
to answer for you learning here you come
to the Foreign Studies what is it about
the rest of the world that interests you
so much restore all the other countries
you know foreign countries what what are
you interested in from foreign countries
it's not that simple
um I don't quite get you get your ok for
foreign studies you've you study foreign
language foreign languages what is it
about other languages other countries
that you find interesting should I say
so
no special comments okay if they say
what they want there will be in trouble
they'll all be kicked out of Kenya if
they say oh I don't like my leader and
then Oh
North Korea is bad country then no it's
gonna be huge for what for them soon
Julie knows all too well the
expectations of the regime now living in
Seoul he escaped from North Korea at the
age of 16 what would happen to you if
you went back to Pyongyang tomorrow what
would the government do public execution
seriously because I mean I'm talking
about North Korea at now all right with
you this will be on TV so this interview
will be shown in North Korea and outside
of this man so describe exactly exactly
I mean if I go back to North Korea
first of all Norton government may be
torture and then they forced me to
announce certain kind of a script
written by the government you don't seem
scared by this
well actually somebody has to tell this
I mean the truth I mean North Korean
government tried to hide up truth they
try to hide the sky with their palms but
they cannot hide out everything coming
out the world will end as we know it but
isn't it madness
what is the North's master plan
just over the border from here North
Korea there's more than 10,000 rocket
launches ready a name the US military on
high alert if war broke out tomorrow are
you guys ready to go I believe we are
and the South living under constant
threat you must dread the day that you
might have to actually put one of these
on that's next on 60 minutes
when I got to South Korea I was so
confused that people are so nice really
yeah so nice and so I mean he was kind
of one of culture shock got a hat these
days some Julie enjoys a freedom he
never knew existed in his former life in
North Korea since he fled the country in
he's worked tirelessly to expose the
hypocrisy of the regime that creates a
country for just 10% of total population
I can say 90% are slaves North Korea is
a country but I can say North Korea is
prison the regime's brutality is
notorious and not just how it crashes
any sign of dissent from within in
February the world was stunned by the
brazen assassination in Malaysia of Kim
Jong Un's
exiled half-brother Kim jong-nam with VX
nerve gas
for many it showed just how erratic and
ruthless the North Korean dictator
really is what do you think of kim
jeong-hoon
well international community keeps
saying that Kim jong-un is very
unpredictable
he is very irrational but my perspective
Kim jong-un is very predictable he's
very rational is he smart yes in terms
of protecting its own regime that's why
he's he's developing nuclear weapon do
you think he wants war he will not
attack United States first he will not
attack South Korea first but if South
Korea and United States can either try
to use military option then they will
attack with tensions rising the US
military has been stepping up its
preparations for war
just this week there was a massive show
of force by three aircraft carrier
strike groups off the Korean Peninsula
drawing the ire of Pyongyang
two kilometers from the North Korean
border we joined US Marines as they hold
their shooting skills and went through
drills for the possibility of chemical
warfare well we hear so much about the
prospect of a nuclear attack it's
actually conventional warfare that's
much more likely at first just over the
border from here North Korea there's
more than 10,000 rocket launchers ready
and aimed at the south and within the
first few days of war here more than a
million lives could be lost
if war broke out tomorrow are you guys
ready to go I believe we are regardless
of the environment these Marines need to
be prepared for everything
Colonel Moore Hennigan is the combat
logistic regiment's commanding officer
the Marines that are here today are
working actually at their basic infantry
skills every Marine is a rifleman so
they have the opportunity to come out in
the they shoot and in multiple
environments there's a certain irony to
this because they'd hear those gunshots
in North Korea yep they sure would and
and we actually get to listen every
night to whether it's the radios that
are going off or just everything that's
happening right across the line so yeah
it's not lost on anyone
with tensions on a hair-trigger there
are fears the region could be tipped
into an accidental war we've come to
South Korea's Yongbyon Island just 10
kilometers from the North Korean
mainland 2,000 people call it home with
2,000 Marines stationed here to protect
them seven years ago the island came
under a hail of fire from North Korean
artillery killing four people and
injuring 20 and followed a military
exercise in the South the pyongyang
viewed as aggression so how long have
you been living on the island here for
about thirty years for local guest house
owners seungyeon och it was the most
terrifying day of her life the whole
town was just covered in black smoke and
it was a sea of fire
it was cutter strophe it sounds like a
really had an effect on you yeah yes
indeed not just me but all the
townspeople
South Korea has nearly 20,000 bomb
shelters dotted across the country
seriously heavy door it's not until your
head inside that you appreciate how
frightening it would be to have to use
one huge this shelter is equipped to
hold 530 villages a quarter of the
island's population for three days it's
sealed against conventional chemical and
biological attack we are well prepared
as we can be because we have gone
through this before
you must dread the day that you might
have to actually put one of these on I
hope that never happens
we've heard so many threats from Kim
jong-un and Donald Trump does that make
you worry sometimes about your safety
here I don't feel completely safe Kim
jong-un and Donald Trump I'm afraid to
say it like this but they are both a bit
cycle neither them seem like no more
people to me
kim jeong-hoon our leader is just doing
the only thing that the small country a
tiny country with 25 million people can
do to secure its survival it's only life
insurance is nuclear deterrence
Alejandro's kalibanos
is North Koreans unofficial spokesman
outside of the Hermit Kingdom he was my
guide last time I visited North Korea
this time I have to catch up with him in
Barcelona after the Spanish government
slapped him with a travel ban we declare
there will be no world without Korea if
DPRK if North Korea is attacked knew
clearly by the United States the answer
will be nuclear as well so you just
destroy the world if the United States
the one that will destroy by launching a
nuclear attack or North Korea we just
answer in the moment that you launch 10
missiles that are equivalent to 1,000
bombs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki who will
survive in this world not Australian not
Spaniards nobody in the United States
the world will end as we know it but
isn't that madness the madness is the
United States to try to conquer the
world and try to destroy other societies
the madness is to act as an emperor and
the other countries serving that Emperor
and contributing troops and money for
the end of the world
that's the madness coming out this is
effectively where the battle line is
drawn a warning to Australia they will
not be able to avoid disaster and
uncovering the real North Korea behind
on politics I've got to know the people
and and they are a fantastic people
high-five
oh yeah Mitchell the only time on this
trip I don't have a mind that sitting on
my shoulder yeah I wish it would come
down and it's a frightening that's next
on 60 minutes in North Korea you can
take photos yeah we visit the
demilitarized zone that separated this
divided Peninsula for more than 60 years
yeah the flags of the countries which
attended the creamer under name of un
for like yes here rival soldiers eyeball
one another at what's regarded as the
most dangerous border in the world this
is effectively where the battle line is
drawn just about the most tense place on
earth right now at the moment the mood
here it's deadly serious Australia
stands with the Republic of Korea in
solidarity against the provocative and
illegal behavior of North Korea
just a few weeks before our visit the
Australian foreign and defense ministers
stood at the southern side in a move
that infuriated Pyongyang I want to
repeat some of the articles which was by
the spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs of our country should Australia
continue to follow the u.s. in imposing
military economic and diplomatic
pressure upon the DPR Korea despite our
repeated warnings they will not be able
to avoid the disaster Australia will not
be able to avoid disaster disaster so
you think that if Australia gets
involved in any action against the DPRK
it will be also harmful to Australian
depolarizing our approach seems to have
made us a target I don't accept that
I don't believe estrella is a primary
target foreign minister Julie Bishop
believes North Korea is using its
nuclear arsenal to hold the world to
ransom
north Korea has used coercive blackmail
as a negotiating tactic in the past and
it is ramping up its ballistic missile
and nuclear weapons programs in order to
put itself in the best negotiating
position the official government line
there is that Australia is heading for
disaster surely that worries you well I
didn't say it didn't worry me doesn't
it's an issue that we are dealing with I
just want to read you a couple of quotes
from Donald Trump he's threatened to
unleash fire and fury like the world has
never seen
he says going to totally destroy North
Korea he's called Kim jong-un little
rocket man and also referred to him as
being short and fat is that really the
kind of diplomacy you want to hitch your
wagon to it certainly has a reaction in
North Korea and the trading of insults
is actually it doesn't help the cause
what president Trump's intervention has
done is brought China into the
discussion in a very direct way and I
believe that that will be part of the
most successful of strategy we've seen
today so you think that language is
actually beneficial
I said that I'll use my words the
language has made Beijing recalculate
its strategy its risk and now China is
deeply involved and I believe that is
beneficial there are some lighter
moments on our trip to North Korea
another side of life here that the
regime is keen to promote do you think I
can win today I've been invited to take
part in the Pyongyang marathon surely
one of the world's most obscure running
events what do you make of the turnout
here this one's very small the big
marathons in April that had over a
thousand 100 Western runners this is I
think 20 Nick Bona has run a tourism
business here for more than two decades
how much of that do you think is people
that are just a bit worried about the
situation here I think it's yeah partly
that it's also that the Americans can no
longer visit so that's 20 percent down
yeah and it's the current situation it's
it's definitely hit tourism and behind
all politics I've got to know the people
and they are a fantastic people politics
apart yeah I wish it would come down and
it's very frightening after a North
Korean misfire
[Music]
we pound the pavements of Pyongyang
it really is nice just to be out it's
really the only time on this trip I
don't have a mind that sitting on my
shoulder the whole time watching every
move free cut here for what you can't
help but feel an event like this is very
much a charm offensive from a regime
that's constantly paranoid about how it
is perceived betting its chest to the
outside world and subjecting its people
to a never-ending barrage of propaganda
well we've got some of it here they
still produced this kind of rubbish it
was everywhere oh my god oh do you mind
having my crazy translating song is for
North Korean defectors song Juli grew up
saying this kind of material every day
we killed USA and our target is GSA this
end of our enemy but this is just part
of their everyday life isn't it growing
up with these imagery of the u.s.
getting slaughtered yeah you exactly I
mean this is not just post courtesan
kind of end up in the textbook their
textbook in every shop window yeah of
course I mean that's that's North Korea
that's canal but that's kind of the that
way I mean the way to brainwash people
before we go soon julie has something to
show me his two dogs peaceful and
unification
symbols of hope that one day the two
careers will be reunited some Julie
believes if change is to come it must be
from within if international community
attacked North Korea the people will
stick together around its leader and
then they will fight until the last
person exists military intervention into
intervention cannot be solution but my
solution is to send information give
them power give them information and
then make them choose their future so
don't bombard North Korea with missiles
bombard them with information and
knowledge yes I mean knowledge has power
as its stronger than weapon
[Music]
if there's one thing you'd like us to
take back to Australia about your
country what would it be I hope that TBT
no line from Australia let all the
people in Australia feel that DPR
Koreans are really peace loving and
friendly people the nuclear deterrence
of our country is not to attack other
country including Australia our nuclear
deterrence is to protect our service
from the nuclear threats from us
so usually I said to my foreign press
that it takes a sieve to catch a seat
[Music]
hello I'm Tara brown thanks for watching
to keep up with the latest from 60
minutes Australia make sure you
subscribe to our Channel you can also
download the 9 now app for full episodes
and other exclusive 60 minutes content